README.md, before:

# Intro
The purpose of this is to allow any human or program to aid in the search for a counterexample to disprove the Collatz Conjecture, and settle this infamous but interesting problem once and for all.

## What is the Collatz Conjecture?
[Wikipedia has a good article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture) about it. Also [Numberphile has a video](https://youtu.be/5mFpVDpKX70) on it, and [Veritasium too](https://youtu.be/094y1Z2wpJg). [This video](https://youtu.be/i4OTNm7bRP8) is also very underrated

# Note
These programs assume that numbers don't diverge to infinity, it only tries to find cycles. This means it could enter an infinite loop that allocates increasingly more and more memory, until an OOM error happens.

# Usage
## Library API
You can use a script tag in your HTML files with its `src` attribute set to the path of your downloaded copy of the `lib.js` file. I recommend you rename it to something like `Collatz-finder.js`. Another option is to copy-paste the text contents of the file into the browser console, then run it. After that, you can call `Collatz.search` method within other scripts in your HTML or in the console.

`Collatz.search` takes an argument that must be coercible by the [`BigInt`](https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/numbers-and-dates.html#sec-bigint-constructor) constructor, so avoid invalid values or it'll throw an error. The only input argument must be the number of integers you want to check, starting from `Collatz.limitPos` if the input is positive or `limitNeg` if negative. If any of those ints is detected to be a counterexample, the method will let you know by returning that int, if no counterexample is found it returns `undefined`.

You can replace the value of `Collatz.limit*` if you want to skip to bigger ints, or double-check small ints. But be aware that your input value will be coerced by `BigInt` and forced to be odd instead of even, it'll also have a minimum value equal to the greatest term in the trivial cycle +-1 (depends on input sign).

## Website
Currently, the website is unusable. I'm working on it.

## Native executable
[Rust implementation](https://github.com/Rudxain/collatz_finder)

# Some algebra
If `n` is a Natural that when tripled and incremented becomes a power of 2 then it's of the form `3n + 1 = 2^m`, thus equivalent to `n = Mersenne(m) / 3`. Therefore, `m = 2k`, because `bitlen(3) = 2`, where `bitlen(x) = ilb(x) + 1`, so `n = (2^(2k) - 1) / 3`. This means that `3n+1` is a **perfect square power of 2**, because it has an even number of binary trailing zeros.

An optimization based on this https://math.stackexchange.com/a/2285699 , states (if I understood correctly) that an int of the form `2^a + n`, where `n` is a number already checked and `2^a >= n`, could be discarded if the length of the hailstone sequence is small enough to preserve at least 1 of the zeros of the most significant slice (the zeros that were added by the power of 2). So a binary numeral like `10000000000000011` can be discarded because the hailstone length of 3 is small, however a numeral like `10111` must be processed because the hailstone length of 7 is too long to preserve the only `0` available

# Unconditional function limit
> The notation "f^n(x)" means "apply f to x, n times". So f^0(x) = x, f^1(x) = f(x), f^2(x) = f(f(x)), and so on...

let f(x) = (3x + 1) / 2

Does the following limit converge for any arbitrary x?

lim n -> Inf: f^(n + 1)(x) / f^n(x)

Is it irrational? If so, is it transcendental?

# A doubt I have
> The following is subjective, because it heavily depends on my knowledge of the problem.

For an arbitrary positive `n` to diverge to +Infinity when the Collatz procedure is applied, it must be a number that **always becomes odd** after applying the `f` previously mentioned. If we take a heuristic/statistical POV, **this is impossible**.

Why has nobody proven that no number can't diverge? Why is everybody focused on finding unknown cycles and proving the conjecture true?

Commit message:

add "what to do?" section

README.md, after:

# Intro
The purpose of this is to allow any human or program to aid in the search for a counterexample to disprove the Collatz Conjecture, and settle this infamous but interesting problem once and for all.

## What is the Collatz Conjecture?
[Wikipedia has a good article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture) about it. Also [Numberphile has a video](https://youtu.be/5mFpVDpKX70) on it, and [Veritasium too](https://youtu.be/094y1Z2wpJg). [This video](https://youtu.be/i4OTNm7bRP8) is also very underrated

# Note
These programs assume that numbers don't diverge to infinity, it only tries to find cycles. This means it could enter an infinite loop that allocates increasingly more and more memory, until an OOM error happens.

# Usage
## Library API
You can use a script tag in your HTML files with its `src` attribute set to the path of your downloaded copy of the `lib.js` file. I recommend you rename it to something like `Collatz-finder.js`. Another option is to copy-paste the text contents of the file into the browser console, then run it. After that, you can call `Collatz.search` method within other scripts in your HTML or in the console.

`Collatz.search` takes an argument that must be coercible by the [`BigInt`](https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/numbers-and-dates.html#sec-bigint-constructor) constructor, so avoid invalid values or it'll throw an error. The only input argument must be the number of integers you want to check, starting from `Collatz.limitPos` if the input is positive or `limitNeg` if negative. If any of those ints is detected to be a counterexample, the method will let you know by returning that int, if no counterexample is found it returns `undefined`.

You can replace the value of `Collatz.limit*` if you want to skip to bigger ints, or double-check small ints. But be aware that your input value will be coerced by `BigInt` and forced to be odd instead of even, it'll also have a minimum value equal to the greatest term in the trivial cycle +-1 (depends on input sign).

## Website
Currently, the website is unusable. I'm working on it.

## Native executable
[Rust implementation](https://github.com/Rudxain/collatz_finder)

# "What to do if I find a counter-example?"
This is not a stupid question! I would also not know what to do in one of the most epic moments in the history of math!

I suggest you to post your results everywhere! A GH Issue here, r/Math, YouTube. But [don't edit the Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:No_original_research). To make people take you seriously, you must post the numeral that disproves CC. It's very likely that it'll be  **[[ H U G E ]]** ,  so I recommend posting a [gist](https://gist.github.com) containing the full numeral, and then post links to that gist. A tip for smaller size, hexadecimal is more compact than dec, raw-binary is more compact than hex. If you use hex or raw, clarify which endianness (to disambiguate).

Another tip, **ensure nobody else takes credit for it.** I know that sounds egotistical, but nobody wants to give countless hours of computing power for free, am I right? So you must keep your results *secret*, until you can ensure that your name/identity is "linked" to your computer, and that your computer is also "linked" to the result.

# Some algebra
If `n` is a Natural that when tripled and incremented becomes a power of 2 then it's of the form `3n + 1 = 2^m`, thus equivalent to `n = Mersenne(m) / 3`. Therefore, `m = 2k`, because `bitlen(3) = 2`, where `bitlen(x) = ilb(x) + 1`, so `n = (2^(2k) - 1) / 3`. This means that `3n+1` is a **perfect square power of 2**, because it has an even number of binary trailing zeros.

An optimization based on this https://math.stackexchange.com/a/2285699 , states (if I understood correctly) that an int of the form `2^a + n`, where `n` is a number already checked and `2^a >= n`, could be discarded if the length of the hailstone sequence is small enough to preserve at least 1 of the zeros of the most significant slice (the zeros that were added by the power of 2). So a binary numeral like `10000000000000011` can be discarded because the hailstone length of 3 is small, however a numeral like `10111` must be processed because the hailstone length of 7 is too long to preserve the only `0` available

# Unconditional function limit
> The notation "f^n(x)" means "apply f to x, n times". So f^0(x) = x, f^1(x) = f(x), f^2(x) = f(f(x)), and so on...

let f(x) = (3x + 1) / 2

Does the following limit converge for any arbitrary x?

lim n -> Inf: f^(n + 1)(x) / f^n(x)

Is it irrational? If so, is it transcendental?

# A doubt I have
> The following is subjective, because it heavily depends on my knowledge of the problem.

For an arbitrary positive `n` to diverge to +Infinity when the Collatz procedure is applied, it must be a number that **always becomes odd** after applying the `f` previously mentioned. If we take a heuristic/statistical POV, **this is impossible**.

Why has nobody proven that no number can't diverge? Why is everybody focused on finding unknown cycles and proving the conjecture true?
